.. _hco-sa-sim-config:

######################
Configure a simulation
######################

.. note::

   Another useful resource for instructions on configuring HEMCO run
   directories is our `YouTube tutorial
   <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Bup9V0ts6U&t=69s>`_.

Navigate to your new directory, and examine the contents:

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd /path/to/hemco/run/dir
   $ ls
   build/                         download_data.yml               HEMCO_sa_Grid.4x5.rc  Restarts/
   cleanRunDir.sh*                HEMCO_Config.rc                 HEMCO_sa_Spec.rc      rundir.version
   CodeDir@                       HEMCO_Config.rc.gmao_metfields  HEMCO_sa_Time.rc      runHEMCO.sh*
   config_for_offline_emissions/  HEMCO_Diagn.rc                  OutputDir/
   download_data.py*              HEMCO_sa_Config.rc              README

=================================
Run directory configuration files
=================================

The following files can be modified to set up your HEMCO standalone simulation.

HEMCO_sa_Config.rc
------------------

Main configuration file for the HEMCO standalone simulation. This
file points to the other configuration files used to set up your
simulation (e.g. :option:`HEMCO_sa_Grid.4x5.rc`,
:option:`HEMCO_sa_Time.rc`).

This file typically references a :option:`HEMCO_Config.rc` file
using

.. code-block:: none

   >>>include HEMCO_Config.rc

which contains the emissions settings. Settings in
:option:`HEMCO_sa_Config.rc` will always override any settings in
the included :option:`HEMCO_Config.rc` file.

HEMCO_Config.rc
---------------

Contains emissions settings. :option:`HEMCO_Config.rc` can be taken
from a another model (such as GEOS-Chem), or can be built from a
sample file.

For more information on editing :option:`HEMCO_Config.rc`, please
see the following chapters: :ref:`hco-cfg`, :ref:`edit-hco-cfg`,
and :ref:`cfg-ex`.

.. important::

   Make sure that the path to your data directory in the
   :option:`HEMCO_Config.rc` file is correct.  Otherwise, HEMCO
   standalone will not be able read data from disk.

HEMCO_Diagn.rc
--------------

Specifies which fields to save out to the HEMCO diagnostics file
saved in :file:`OutputDir` by default. The frequency to save out
diagnostics is controlled by the :ref:`hco-cfg-set-diagnfreq`
setting in :option:`HEMCO_sa_Config.rc`

For more information, please see the chapter entitled
:ref:`hco-diag-configfile`.

HEMCO_sa_Grid.4x5.rc
--------------------

Defines the grid specification. Sample files are provided for 4.0 x
5.0, 2.0 x 2.5, 0.5 x 0.625, and 0.25 x 0.3125 global grids in
:file:`HEMCO/run/` and are automatically copied to the run
directory based on options chosen when running
:file:`createRunDir.sh`.  you choose to run with a custom grid or
over a regional domain, you will need to modify this file
manually.

HEMCO_sa_Spec.rc
----------------

Defines the species to include in the HEMCO standalone
simulation. By default, the species in a GEOS-Chem full-chemistry
"standard" simulation are included.

You may easily generate a :file:`HEMCO_sa_Spec.rc` corresponding to a
different GEOS-Chem simulation with the `GCPy
<https://gcpy.readthedocs.io>`_ example script
`make_hemco_sa_spec.py
<https://github.com/geoschem/gcpy/blob/main/gcpy/examples/hemco/make_hemco_sa_spec.py>`_.
Run this script on the `geoschem_species_metadata.yml
<https://geos-chem.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gcclassic-user-guide/log-files.html#geos-chem-species-metadata-log>`_ file
generated by a GEOS-Chem simulation, as shown below:

.. code-block:: console

   $ conda activate gcpy_env

   (gcpy_env) $ python -m gcpy.examples.hemco.make_hemco_sa_spec /path/to/geoschem_species_metadata.yml

   (gcpy_env) $ conda deactivate


HEMCO_sa_Time.rc
----------------

Defines the start and end times of the HEMCO standalone simulation
as well as the emissions timestep (s).

runHEMCO.sh
-----------

Sample run script for submitting a HEMCO standalone simulation via
SLURM.
